---
title: Learning Mathematics, Logic and Reasoning
date: 2021-04-05T18:35:38Z
tags: []
description: ''
---

Mathematics is one of those subjects that I think people people often overlook, the number of times that I've heard classmates and friends say something along the lines of "Oh, I'm just not a math person is staggering.

While it certainly is true that there are some people who are born with a higher aptitude for mathematics, just as there are people born with a higher aptitude for any subject, I believe that the fact that we have so many students today who are wilting in their mathematical ability is a sort of tragedy.

In my own life, learning mathematics has played a big role, it is undoubtedly the subject that I have spent the most amount of time and energy on. This coming summer, I will be taking my very first graduate level course, titled "Numerical Analysis."

I think there used to be a saying that went something like, "Reading, writing, arithmetic taught to the tune of the hickory stick." We no longer teach subjects to the "tune of the hickory stick," but the three core subjects have remained the same. Reading, writing, and mathematics. Now, reading and writing are very similar, they both have something to deal with words, with human language. Words are a beautiful thing, they're an intricate, and complex thing too. A beautifully constructed speech can sway minds, stop wars, the pen is mightier than the sword, after all. And while words serve to express our thought, numbers seem to serve a different purpose entirely.

In many ways, numbers and words are similar, words represent an idea, a construct, that is true and can be seen in nature, but these words hold meaning beyond just the superficial, they contain the essence of things. For example, if I showed you a wooden rectangular platform with four sticks to hold it up off the floor, you might say it's a table, if I showed you an aluminum circular platform with three aluminum poles to hold it up off the floor, you'd probably still be able to say it was a table. These two things are very different in design, material, and look, and yet they're all able to be described by the word "table," which means there's something about a table that has remained universal for both of these objects.

Numbers are the same. I can say that there is one apple, or one orange, there could be one table, or one train, or car, or galaxy. The objects themselves are very different, but the idea of one remains the same. The crucial difference between a number and a word is that numbers don't carry feeling. Words, phrases, sentences, these are things that carry feeling, which the listener or reader interprets and processes in their mind. A beautiful, moving speech for one person, may not be so incredible for the next, the appeal of words is modular, it changes from individual to individual. Not so much with numbers. With numbers, if you are "in the know" anyone will view a careful construction of them as beautiful. For example, Euclid's proof that there are an infinite number of prime numbers is a "beautiful" proof. of the theory. There are a thousand other proofs of infinite primes, and each one serves the same purpose, but Euclid's proof holds some special meaning outside of just the pure analytical value.

Mathematics can prove eternal ideas. Ideas created by humans are not eternal, ideas defined by words can be changed, and most inevitably will. But mathematics, when untouched by human emotions, is the only thing that can provide us with knowledge of the most fundamental, and eternal things. For example, Euclid, whom I mentioned above, created and defined ideas so fundamental, that even now, 2,300 years later, they have not been changed or improved upon. Many things have been built up from Euclid's work, new things have been discovered, but the core, the essence of the ideas presented there have not changed.

Mathematics is as close as we will get to the word of God, as high horsey as that sounds, it's true. Mathematics is beautiful because the thing it is describing, nature, is also beautiful. Mathematics opens the world to so many other ideas, and especially in our human world, to have at least something that is definitively true is a thing to cherish and enjoy.